
Accessibility Services
The Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) is committed to ensuring equal access and an accessible learning environment for all Kean University community members and to ensure the full participation of persons with disabilities according to the law. OAS aims to promote wellness, accessibility, equity, inclusion and diversity and to increase disability and accessibility awareness throughout the campus community and beyond.
Accessibility Services
The Office of Accessibility Services strives to increase disability and access awareness throughout the campus community and beyond in a manner that is consistent with the current social model of disability services. OAS is committed to ensuring the full participation of individuals with disabilities according to law.

Our Mission
The Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) is committed to ensuring equal access and an accessible learning environment for all Kean University community members and to ensure the full participation of persons with disabilities according to the law. OAS strives to empower students to achieve academic success as well as personal and professional growth through the development of independence and self-advocacy. OAS aims to promote wellness, accessibility, equity, inclusion and diversity and to increase disability and accessibility awareness throughout the campus community and beyond.
Announcements
OAS Test Room Appointments can be made through the Accommodate Student Portal 'Testing Room' menu item or by contacting the OAS office. All Testing Appointments must be made at least one week in advance.
Day of and day before requests to reschedule Test Room Appointments will not be accepted. Canceling and rescheduling an existing Test Room Appointment must also be done at least one week in advance.
The Office of Accessibility Services is located on the Kean Union campus in the Kean Wellness Center - Downs Hall Room 122
Office Hours:
 9:30 AM - 4:30 PM Monday - Friday during Spring and Fall Semester
 8:15 AM - 5:30 PM Monday - Thursday during the Summer
For tutoring, please sign up with TutorTrac or email: tutoring@kean.edu. For mental health issues and concerns, please contact the Kean University Counseling Center email counseling@kean.edu.
To request accommodations, please see below.
Request Accommodations
Students who seek support services from the Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) must be enrolled Kean University students and provide a current class schedule. Students are required to self-disclose their disability and submit current documentation to verify eligibility as defined under applicable law. To meet this requirement, documentation must be dated within the last five years and must address the present need for accommodations.
This documentation will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis in addition to meeting with an OAS team member to answer any questions. Academic accommodations are designed to provide equal access to course content while maintaining the academic standards that are required in all classes. The University may deny an accommodation, academic adjustment or request for assistive technology if determined to be unreasonable, or if the modification fundamentally alters an academic program.
Important Application Deadlines
Deadline for the Fall semester August 15th for Academic and Housing accommodation requests
Deadline for the Spring semester December 15th for Academic and Housing accommodation requests
Deadline for the Summer semester May 1st for Academic and Housing accommodation request
Please note that providing a request as soon as possible will enable our office to process the requests in a timely manner.
How to Apply
To request accommodations from the Office of Accessibility Services:
1. Review the disability Documentation Requirements and complete the Application For Services Form (KU student ID and KU email are required).
* Be sure to upload documentation of your disability with this application.
2. When submitting supplemental documentation such as the items below, please ensure they are current within five years of the current year.
* Educational or Psychological evaluations, IEPs or 504 plans from prior education settings,
* Letters of Accommodation from previous institutions (Transfer or Graduate students).
3. Once you have submitted your application and documentation, an OAS team member will send you an email requesting an initial meeting. During this meeting, reasonable accommodations will be discussed.
Additional Information to assist in preparing your application:
Temporary Disabilities
Students requesting short term accommodations due to a temporary disability must provide documentation of the temporary disability from the treating medical professional via the Disability Verification Form for Medical Providers found in Documentation Requirements
Meal Plan Exemptions
Students requesting a meal plan exemption due to a medical circumstance must complete the following steps:
1. Obtain documentation of the medical need from the treating medical professional via the Disability Verification Form for Medical Providers found in Documentation Requirements
2. Complete the Meal Plan Exemption Request Form - Medical and submit along with the documentation described in number 1 above.
3. Meet with the Kean Gourmet Dining Services Registered Dietitian to review options offered on campus that may meet your needs.
Students requesting a meal plan exemption due to a non-medical circumstance must complete the following steps:
1. Complete the Meal Plan Exemption Request Form - Non-Medical and submit along with the documentation described in number 1 above.
2. Meet with the Kean Gourmet Dining Services Registered Dietitian to review options offered on campus that may meet your needs.
Emotional Support Animal Requests:
Please see the On Campus Animal Information pages to understand requirements and responsibilities before submitting your application to have an Emotional Support Animal accompany you on campus.
Eligibility Determination and Accommodation Lead Time
The eligibility determination process is not a same day process. However, we will work diligently to provide accommodations in a timely manner.
Please submit your application and documentation as early as possible. Accommodations such as alternate text formats and access to assistive technology may entail longer lead times to implement. Once approved, accommodations are not retroactive and become effective on the date of the Letter of Accommodation.
Please call (908) 737-4910, or email the OAS at accessibilityservices@kean.edu with any questions.

Cougar Pantry
Kean established the Cougar Pantry is part of an ongoing effort to address hunger and food insecurity among undergraduate and graduate students within the University s campus community. The pantry carries an assortment of non-perishable goods, basic care items, and career ready clothing complimentary for registered students.

Cougar Pantry
Kean Foundation

Wellness Absence
Breadcrumb
* Home

* Offices A-Z

* Kean Counseling Center
Wellness absences are granted for issues related to mental health. If your diagnosis is medical (physical, injury, or pregnancy-related), a request for a Health absence should be directed to Student Health Services.
There are three types of absences: Bereavement Leave, Short Term Leave and Semester Withdrawal. Read the following and decide which is best for you and your circumstances.
Bereavement Leave: Students will be granted up to three (3) consecutive weekdays of bereavement leave for the death of an immediate family member. Requests for additional days will be considered to support bereavement needs. At any given point, the student may decide to take a short-term leave or withdraw from the semester. Additional information for requesting a leave of absence (including important information about potential impacts to financial aid) can be found below.
Short Term Leave: If a student will be absent from class for five consecutive days but less than two weeks, due to medical or mental health reasons, the student may request a Short Term Leave. If your diagnosis is mental health-related, a request for a Wellness short term leave should be directed to the Counseling Center.
Semester Withdrawal: If a student will be absent from class for greater than two weeks, due to medical or mental health reasons, the student may request a semester withdrawal.
Please note short term leaves are not available for half-semester courses. Students taking half-semester courses will need to apply for a semester withdrawal.
Bereavement Leave
Steps to Request Bereavement Leave
Please see this link about bereavement leavefor important information about Bereavement Leave and the steps needed to ensure communication of bereavement leave between the student and Kean University.
Short Term Leave
If a student will be absent from class for five consecutive days but less than two weeks, due to medical reasons, the student may request a Short Term Leave.
Please note short term leaves are not available for half-semester courses. Students taking half-semester courses will need to apply for a semester withdrawal.
Steps To Request a Short Term Leave
Steps 2 through 5 take place within the Student Health Portal. Questions about the Student Health Portal can be directed to our reception team at (908) 737-4850.
1. Print or download the Semester Withdrawal Provider Form and give it to your healthcare provider to fill out. Print or download the Short Term Leave Provider Form for Short Term Leave requests. Requests will not be processed unless the Provider Form is complete.
2. Upload the completed Provider Form in the Document Upload area of the Student Health Portal.
* Select Counseling: Short Term Leave Documents for Short Term Leave
3. Send a new message to the Director, Dr. John Grady in the Messages area of the Student Health Portal. Include the following information in the message:
* In the Subject write Short Term Leave or a Semester Withdrawal
* Your full name and Kean University ID number.
* Clearly state if you are requesting a Short Term Leave or a Semester Withdrawal
4. Forms will be added to your Student Health Portal; Complete the leave or withdrawal form in the My Forms area
5. Confirmation that your request has been processed will be sent in the Messages area of the Student Health Portal
All documents will be reviewed and processed after they have been uploaded and the appropriate form has been completed in the Student Health Portal. Allow three to five business days for a response regarding the determination of a request.
You may check on the status of your request by sending a new message to Dr. John Grady in the Messages area of the Student Health Portal.
Once a determination is made, the Kean Wellness Center will notify you via email and notify your instructors of the absence. This process should not be a substitute for student communication with his or her instructors.

Semester Withdrawal
A Semester Withdrawal is required if a student will be absent for two (2) weeks or longer. In this case, the student will be withdrawn from all classes for the current semester. The student will receive a "W" grade on their transcript for the semester. The withdrawal or W grade is not counted in the cumulative grade point average.
Students are strongly encouraged to consult with their department chairperson or director to discuss any impact to their anticipated timeline toward degree completion prior to submitting this request.
Requests for a semester withdrawal should be made no later than 4 months after the end of the impacted semester.
Steps To Request a Semester Withdrawal
1. Download the Semester Withdrawal Request Form and the Semester Withdrawal Provider Form.
* The student is required to fill out the request form.
* Your healthcare provider must fill out the provider form completely.
2. Once both forms are completed, upload both forms to your Student Health Portal.
* Upload the completed forms in the Document Upload area of the Student Health Portal under Semester Withdrawal Documents.
3. Once both documents have been uploaded you will receive a message in your health portal within 3-5 business days stating the documents have been received.
4. The Medical Withdrawal Committee will review your request and contact you via email to schedule a meeting prior to a final decision if necessary.
Please note the Withdrawal Committee meets the first Monday of every month. All new requests will be reviewed at that time.
Financial Impact of Semester Withdrawal
A semester withdrawal does not automatically guarantee a refund or a deletion of a balance due. Refunds are processed according to the deadline dates on the Academic Calendar provided by the Office of the Registrar. Students who experience a health or wellness issue during the last few weeks of a semester should review the Incomplete Grade policy in the current Undergraduate or Graduate Catalog.
A Semester Withdrawal may have a financial impact on student accounts. Kean Counseling Center does not process financial requests. Information about tuition, fees and Financial Aid can be found on the Office of Student Accounting and Office of Financial Aid websites.
The withdrawal or W grade is not counted in the cumulative grade point average.
Accommodate Student Portal
The Kean Office of Accessibility Services offers a web-based portal to provide access to services for registered students with accommodations.
Go directly to the Accommodate Student Portal Login (OAS registered students) If you are unable to Log Into the portal, see the Help section at the bottom of this page.
If you are a new or current student who would like to request accommodations for the first time at Kean, please see the Request Accommodations section of our web site to submit your request.
Students who have already placed a request or are approved for accommodations here at Kean, can use the Portal to perform the following self-service tasks:
1. Log into the Accommodate Portal
2. Access your Letters of Accommodation
3. Renew your accommodations at the start of a semester
4. Submit a request for additional accommodations
5. Upload documentation and access your Accessibility File
6. View Announcements and OAS Resource Documents
7. Schedule use of the OAS Testing Room
Please follow the step-by-step instructions below to access and navigate your Accommodate portal.
Log into the Accommodate Portal
1. To Log-in to the Accommodate Portal, click https://kean-accommodate.symplicity.com/ and select Student as the user type.
2. You will be redirected to the Kean Single Sign On (SSO) page. (If already logged into your Kean Gmail in the same browser, this step is skipped.)
3. Enter your Kean Account Credentials (user ID + password) to log in.
4. After you log-in you will arrive in the Home section of the Accommodate web portal.
Access your Letters of Accommodation
1. To view your Letters of Accommodation, select Accommodation > Accommodation Letters.
2. A List of all your Letters will be displayed. Click a letter title to open it.
3. Once the letter is open, you have the option to view, print or generate a PDF of the letter.
4. To return to the full list of letters, select Return to Accommodation | Return to list (Letters) at the top of the page.
Renew your accommodations at the start of a semester
To renew your current accommodations at the start of a new semester,
1. Select Accommodation > Semester Request > Add New
2. After clicking "Add New", the system will display all previously approved accommodations available for renewal in blue text.
3. Select the current semester in the drop down menu.
4. Click "Submit for All Accommodations".
5. You will receive your new Letter of Accommodation in your Kean email.
Submit a request for supplemental accommodations
1. To submit a request for supplemental accommodations beyond those for which you are already approved, select Accommodation > Supplemental > Add New
2. Complete the form that is returned and click Submit or Save either will send the request to OAS staff for processing.
Upload documentation and access your Accessibility File
1. To view your original accessibility request, select Accommodation > Accessibility Request (thus feature is available only if your original request was entered via Accommodate).
2. To view or download disability documentation currently in your Accessibility file, select Documents;
3. To upload a new document, select Add New Accessibility Document
View Announcements and OAS Resource Documents
1. Select Home on the Accommodate Student Interface to view any Announcements from the Office of Accessibility Services
2. To view resources uploaded by the Kean Office of Accessibility Services, select Resources > Resource Library
3. Select Profile / Personal to view your student profile details.
Schedule use of the OAS Testing Room
Any student with the Use of OAS Testing Room when open/available accommodation, can schedule a quiz, test or exam to be taken in the Office of Accessibility (OAS) Testing Room.
1. Once logged into the Student Portal, Click 'Testing Room' in the Sidebar Menu and then 'New Booking Request' on the bottom of the next page.
2. Click the drop down to select the Course for which you wish to use the Test Room.
3. Select the date and time that you wish to test.
Plan to schedule your testing appointment at least one week in advance.
Accommodate Portal Log in Help
Portal Log In Help
The Accommodate Student Portal participates in Kean's Single Sign On (SSO) so you must use your Kean email username and password to log in and then verify it is you attempting to log in using Okta Verify. Follow the steps below if you can not log in. Most portal log In problems are resolved by clearing browser cookies.
Below is a set of steps to try if you are able to access your Kean email but you are unable to access the Accommodate Portal.
1. Confirm that you are entering the username and password for your Kean email account (not a personal, non-Kean email account).
2. Please make sure that you are typing your Kean username without "@kean.edu."
3. Clear your browser history (including cookies).
4. Try logging in from a different browser.
5. If possible, try logging in from a different computer, tablet, or other device.
If you are locked out of Kean email as well as Accommodate, Follow the steps provided by the Office of Information Technology (IT) to reset your Kean email password.
 If you complete the steps listed above and are still unable to access the Accommodate Portal by logging in with your Kean username and password, please contact IT by creating a ticket at the Kean OCIS Help Desk Self Service Portal. Be sure to include "I am unable to log in to the Kean Symplicity Accommodate Application Student Portal using my Kean email credentials" in the ticket problem description.
If you are still unable to log in to the portal after placing the IT ticket, please contact the Office of Accessibility Services at accessibilityservices@kean.edu and the IT office will advocate to help resolve the problem.

Accommodate Faculty Portal
The Kean University Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) uses a web based application called Accommodate to support Kean University Faculty in providing testing accommodations for students with current Letters of Accommodation (LOA) issued by Kean OAS.
Click Login to go directly to the Accommodate Faculty Portal.
 If you are unable to log into the portal, please see the Help section at the bottom of this page.
Testing Related Accommodations
A Kean student planning to use their testing accommodation must provide a copy of their Letter of Accommodation dated with the current semester to notify their instructor. Use of any accommodations is at the discretion of the student. A student may choose to use or not use their accommodation by class and by each exam, test or quiz.
The most common testing accommodations at Kean are:
* OAS Testing Room when open/available - Use of the OAS Testing Room to obtain a distraction limited environment
* Extended Time (1.5) - Extended Time (1.5) Time and a Half on quizzes, tests and exams
* Extended Time (2.0) - Extended Time (2.0) Double Time on quizzes, tests and exam
How to Access and use the Faculty Portal in Support of Accommodated Testing
The section below is intended to assist Kean Faculty with the administration of testing accommodations for students enrolled in their courses.
Students who are approved for testing accommodations can schedule any quiz, test or exam to be taken in the OAS Test Room by submitting an Alternative Test Room Booking request in the Accommodate system. Prior to submitting the room booking request in Accommodate, the student is instructed to contact their instructor to:
* Determine if the approved testing accommodations can be supported in the classroom at the same time as the rest of the class is testing.
* Notify the instructor that the student will not be present for the exam if it is to be taken in the OAS Test Room.
* Obtain approval to take the exam at an alternate time if the accommodated time extension interferes with other classes, or if the required exam time is not during OAS office hours, etc.
Once a student submits a test room booking request through Accommodate, OAS is notified and approves the booking for the student to test in the OAS Test Room. The course instructor is then sent an automated email from the Accommodate system with instructions to approve the accommodated testing request if appropriate. The approval steps are as follows:
Log in to the Accommodate Faculty Portal.
1. Navigate to the Accommodate log in page
2. If prompted, select the box labelled Faculty on the next screen.
3. If prompted, type in your Kean email and password and click Submit. (This step may be omitted if you are already logged in to Kean Single Sign On)
4. You are now logged into the Accommodate Faculty Portal.
Complete the steps below to respond to a student request for Accommodated Testing
1. Click Courses in the left sidebar menu, then, on the next page, click the Course Catalog tab and select the current semester in the Semester drop down menu if necessary.
2. Scroll down and click on the Course Title the student is requesting to take the exam for.
3. Click on the Alternative Test Room Bookings tab
4. Click on the student s name to view the request.
5. Click on the Exam tab to display the Testing Accommodation Form to provide testing instructions and any notes you would like to include. Please provide:
* your phone number in case OAS needs to contact you,
* the Last date testing is permitted,
* the Class time allotted for test, and
* the Testing aids permitted for the entire class to tell us what the student can use while testing.
6. Upload a copy of the test
7. Select the Yes radio button and Click Approve when the room booking is complete.
How to Upload Exams to Accommodate
Digital copies of exams and testing Instructions can be uploaded into Accommodate by navigating to the Courses menu item and bringing up the Accommodated Testing Exam Form through either of the paths below:
1. Alternative Test Room Bookings - Navigate to Course / Course Details / Alternative Test Room Bookings click on the Upload New Exam button
2. Exam - Navigate to Course / Course Details / Exam click on the Add New Exam button
Exams can be uploaded at the time you are approving a test room booking or after you have approved a test room booking by using the exam upload tool.
Once the exam is complete, the instructor will receive an email with the completed exam as an attachment or with instructions to download it from Accommodate.
Additional Assistance
Contact the Kean OAS at the Main Office Number: 908-737-4910, via our email: accessibilityservices@kean.edu or at our office location in the Kean Wellness Center - Downs Hall, Room 122, Union Campus.
OAS Faculty Portal - Log in Help
Portal Log In Help
The Accommodate Faculty Portal participates in Kean's Single Sign On (SSO) so you must use your Kean Email username and password to log in and then verify it is you attempting to log in via two factor authentication service used by Kean SSO (e.g. Okta Verify). Follow the steps below if you cannot log in. Most portal log in problems are resolved by clearing browser cookies.
Below is a set of steps to try if you are able to access your Kean email but you are unable to access the Accommodate Faculty Portal.
1. Confirm that you are entering the username and password for your Kean email account (not a personal, non-Kean email account).
2. Please make sure that you are typing your Kean username without "@kean.edu."
3. Clear your browser history (including cookies).
4. Try logging in from a different browser.
5. If possible, try logging in from a different computer, tablet, or other device.
If you are unable to log into Kean email as well as the Accommodate Faculty Portal, Follow the steps provided by the Office of Computer and Information Services (OCIS) to reset your Kean email password.
If you complete the steps listed above and are still not able to access the Accommodate Faculty Portal by logging in with your Kean username and password, please contact Kean University IT by creating a ticket at the Help Desk Self Service Portal. Be sure to include "I am unable to log in to the Kean Symplicity Accommodate Application Faculty Portal using my Kean Email credentials" in the ticket problem description.
If you have questions or require additional assistance, please contact the Office of Accessibility Services at accessibilityservices@kean.edu.

On Campus Animal Information
Introduction
Kean University generally does not permit animals or pets to reside on campus. However, Service Animals and Emotional Support Animals (ESA) are permitted to reside on campus when they are required to fulfill the University mission of providing each student full access to the University s programs and services. The presence of Service Animals on campus is part of this commitment. An Emotional Support Animal can also be a reasonable accommodation provided to qualified students with a disability who live in a University residence.
Guidelines for Animals On Campus
For the definitions of Service Animals vs. Emotional Support Animals, behavior requirements of the animals within Kean facilities and the responsibilities of their owner/handlers, please click on the linked content below:
Kean University Service Animal Guidelines
Kean University Emotional Support Animal Guidelines for Residential Students
Registering On Campus Animals with the OAS
Service Animals
1. The Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) asks that those using service animals on campus provide the OAS with information about their service animal (license, record of vet shots, a photo of the animal). By having a Service Animal on file, the OAS can assist the owner in addressing any issues that may arise on campus.
2. Please submit an Application for Services to begin the process of registering your service animal. Upon receipt of your application, the OAS will contact you to complete the process of registering your animal.
Emotional Support Animals
OAS requires documentation and a meeting to verify the need for an Emotional Support Animal (ESA) on campus. Follow these 3 steps to initiate your application to have an ESA on campus:
1. Have your appropriate treating medical professional complete a Disability Verification Form for Mental Health Providers to document your need for the Emotional Support Animal on campus.
2. Have the support animal's Veterinarian complete the Veterinarian Verification Form.
3. Complete and return an Application for Services specifying your request to have an Emotional Support Animal accompany you on campus. Upload the Disability Verification form (from step 1) and the Veterinarian Verification form (from step 2) right from within the web based Student Intake Application (this step, 3) before you do the final submit.
Once the above items are received, the OAS will review these materials and schedule an intake appointment with you to review the request.
Beware of Inadequate ESA Documentation from Internet Purveyors
A network of websites sell certificates, registrations, and licensing documents attesting the need for an assistance animal to anyone who answers a set of questions or participates in a short interview and pays a fee.
Under the Fair Housing Act, a housing provider may request reliable documentation when an individual requesting a reasonable accommodation has a disability and disability-related need for an accommodation that are not obvious or otherwise known.
In a Field Notification entitled Assessing a Person s Request to Have an Animal as a Reasonable Accommodation Under the Fair Housing Act, and a related Letter to The U.S. Federal Trade Commission Bureau of Consumer Protection, The U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD), has indicated such documentation from the internet is not, by itself, sufficient to reliably establish that an individual has a non-observable disability or disability-related need for an assistance animal.
The HUD rationale is that these websites offer documentation that is not reliable for purposes of determining whether an individual has a disability or disability-related need for an assistance animal because the website operators and health care professionals who consult with them lack the personal knowledge that is necessary to make such determinations. This is because the websites typically obtain information from the individual purchasing documentation by requiring the individual to answer a simple, online questionnaire or participate in a single, brief interview.
==============================================
Office of Accessibility Services
Student FAQ's and How to Register
This page lists the steps required to register with our office and apply for accommodations and provides answers to Frequently Asked Questions about registration and accommodations.
How to Register with OAS and Apply for Accommodations
1. Click on the OAS Home Page and scroll to Request Accommodations - carefully review the Important Application Deadlines, the steps under How To Apply and the Eligibility Determination and Accommodation Lead Time sections for deadlines and special information.
2. Review Documentation Requirements and adhere to the requirements.
3. Complete the Application For Services Form.
4. Be sure to upload your supporting documents in the Application for Services Form by clicking the radio button labelled 'Add Item'. The documents you must upload are explained in the Document Requirements section.
5. Monitor your Kean University email account. OAS will send you an appointment email. If you do not receive the email within four days from your application submission date, please email us at: accessibilityservices@kean.edu to schedule an appointment.

Frequently Asked Questions and Answers
Q: What happens after I submit my Application For Services?
A: Your Application for Services will be reviewed after you submit it through the OAS web portal. When your application is complete (you have provided the correct supporting documents and included the requested information) an OAS staff member will contact you by email to schedule an intake appointment for you. Send OAS an email if you do not receive an OAS email within four days.
Additional documentation may be requested if sufficient documentation is not provided. If your application and related accommodation requests are approved, you will receive your accommodation document (aka Letter of Accommodation) through your Kean University email account generally within 24 hours. Please check your email spam folder as the email may land in the spam folder. Email OAS if you do not receive your accommodation document.
Q: What do I do after I receive my accommodation document?
A: After you receive your accommodation document, you will save the document to your computer and then email the document to each of your professors. In your email please be sure to request a response and acknowledgement from your professor for the receipt of your accommodation document. Save the emails to your computer.
If you have extended time on exams, please follow the instructions for accommodated testing on the Accommodated Testing web page.
Q: What do I do if the professor does not understand my accommodations?
A: Please contact OAS as soon as possible by email and/or telephone and OAS will contact your professor to explain the accommodation process.
Q: Do I need to reapply every year?
A: You need to submit a Semester Request from the OAS Student Portal to renew your existing accommodations for each new semester. You may submit a Supplemental Request from the OAS Student Portal if your disability/condition has changed and you feel you need new or different accommodations.
Q: I am taking the PRAXIS/GRE/LSAT/GMAT etc.; how do I apply for accommodation testing with the exam company?
A: Go to the testing company website and find the accommodations section; this section will provide you with the information you need.


Every student with a documented disability at Kean University has the right to:
* Equal access to courses, programs, services, jobs, activities and facilities offered at Kean University.
* Reasonable and effective accommodations as determined for each individual, including academic adjustments and/or auxiliary assistance and services.
* Appropriate confidentiality of all information regarding the disability and a choice as to whom, outside of Kean University, information about the disability may be disclosed, except as disclosures are required or permitted by law.
* Information and evaluations available in alternative formats, based on his or her ability.
* Appeal the institution s decisions concerning accommodations. This may be done by following the procedures outlined on the Complaint, Denial and Grievance Procedures web page.
Every student with a disability has the responsibility to:
* Provide documentation that verifies the disability, functional limitations and the need for accommodations.
* Meet qualifications and maintain essential institutional standards for classes, programs, services, jobs, activities and facilities.
* Follow procedures for obtaining reasonable accommodations, academic adjustments, and/or auxiliary assistance and services as soon as relevant course information is available.
* Self-Identify as an individual with a disability when an accommodation is necessary and to seek information, tutoring, counseling and assistance as necessary.
Kean University has the right to:
* Maintain its academic standards.
* Identify and establish essential functions, abilities, skills, knowledge and standards for courses, programs, services, jobs, activities and the use of facilities; and to evaluate students on this basis.
* Request and receive, through the Office of Accessibility Services, current documentation (generally three to five years) that supports the request for accommodations, academic adjustments, and/or auxiliary assistance and services.
* Deny any request for accommodations, academic adjustments, and/or auxiliary assistance and services if the individual fails to provide appropriate documentation in a timely manner, or if the documentation provided demonstrates that the request is not warranted.
* Select among equally effective accommodations, adjustments, and/or auxiliary assistance and services in consultation with the student.
* Refuse an accommodation, adjustments, and/or auxiliary assistance and services as unreasonable.
Every Faculty Member Has the Responsibility to:
* Assure the confidentiality of all information regarding students with disabilities.
* Discuss with the Office of Accessibility Services any concerns related to the accommodation(s) or arrangements that have been requested by the student during their initial contact.
* Determine the conditions under which an exam is to be administered (e.g., open book, use of notes, computer with word processor that includes spell check, formula sheet, calculator, scrap paper, dictionary).
* Provide appropriate accommodations to students who have provided a current Letter of Accommodation, either personally or by making arrangements with the Office of Accessibility Services.
* Assure the timely delivery of the exam, along with all necessary instructions and materials for proper administration, if a student s exam is to be administered out of class.


Pregnant & Parenting Students
Kean University recognizes that a welcoming, supportive environment is essential for students to succeed, thrive, and realize their full potential. It is the desire and intent of the University to foster and maintain a welcoming environment for all its students, including pregnant and parenting students who are faced with challenges in addition to those that come with being a student.
Kean University does not discriminate in its education program or activity against any applicant for admission, student, applicant for employment, or employee on the basis of current, potential, or past pregnancy or related conditions as mandated by Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX). The University prohibits members of the University community from adopting or implementing any policy, practice, or procedure which treats an applicant for admission, student, applicant for employment, or employee differently on the basis of current, potential, or past parental, family, or marital status. This policy and its pregnancy-related protections apply to all pregnant persons, regardless of gender identity or expression.
For information about Kean's policies or to request assistance, visit the Title IX webpage or you can also contact the Title IX Coordinator directly at titleix@kean.edu or (908) 737-5980. The Title IX Coordinator is required to assist you in securing adjustments and leave, when needed.
Students can also review the complete Pregnancy and Related Conditions and Parenting Student Policy. Students who would like to self-identify as a Pregnant and Parenting Student can do so by completing this form.
Frequently Asked Questions
Steps to Seek Pregnancy Accommodation
Requesting Accommodations:
If you are a Kean University Student and require accommodations due to pregnancy (or pregnancy related conditions/issues), contact the Title IX Coordinator, Catricia Shaw directly at titleix@kean.edu or (908) 737-5980.
If you are a Kean University Employee and require accommodations due to pregnancy (or pregnancy related conditions/issues), please contact the Kean University ADA Coordinator, Yrelys Tapanes at (908) 737-3313, or via email at ytapanes@kean.edu.
Additionally, employees should review the Break Time for Nursing Mothers Policy.
Complaints:
If you believe that you have experienced an incident(s) of discrimination or harassment based on pregnancy (or pregnancy related conditions or issues), you have the right to file a complaint. If you wish to file a complaint of discrimination, please use this form: Title IX Reporting Form.
Frequently Asked Questions: Title IX Regulations on Pregnant and Parenting Students
Do students at all levels have the same protections for modifications and leave?
Yes. The 2024 Title IX regulations protect students and participants at all levels of education, including K-12, undergraduate students, graduate students, students at professional schools, vocational students, incarcerated students, and (non-employee) postdoctoral trainees.
Do these protections and accommodations apply to employees and/or student employees?
The 2024 regulations specifically require: 1) leave be provided for a reasonable period of time (106.57(d)) and, 2) that employees be provided with lactation breaks and space (106.57(e)). Further, Title IX regulations protect employees (including student employees) from discrimination on the basis of pregnancy and related conditions and ensure that employees pregnancy-related conditions are treated like temporary medical conditions for job- related purposes. As a result, in many circumstances, a failure to accommodate an employee would violate Title IX.
Employees experiencing pregnancy-related conditions also have rights under other federal laws including the new PUMP Act and Pregnant Workers Fairness Act. For more information, visit our sister website, www.PregnantatWork.org.
Are the terms "accommodations, modifications, and adjustments" used interchangeably?
The Title IX Regulations require educational institutions to provide students who are pregnant/postpartum with reasonable modifications. That term refers to changes that allow students to have equal access to the educational program or activity. Colloquially, many people also refer to these changes as adjustments or accommodations. Reasonable accommodations (a workplace right) is a similar concept to reasonable modifications.
Do the regulations address IVF or other fertility treatments?
Yes, the new regulations offer protection for all pregnancy-related conditions, including infertility. Protection under Title IX includes those who are planning a pregnancy or seeking/undergoing fertility care. It is a violation of Title IX to discriminate against students undergoing fertility treatment, and institutions must provide related reasonable modifications, when needed. (For the ED s discussion of this topic, see here.)
Do the regulations address abortion?
Yes. Since the first Title IX regulations were enacted in 1975 they have included protection for termination of pregnancy, a technical term that includes abortion, miscarriage, and other pregnancy loss. It is a violation of Title IX to discriminate against students for seeking or obtaining an abortion, and educational institutions must provide pregnancy-related modifications for students regardless of whether they carry their pregnancy to term.
Note that many religious institutions have claimed an exemption to complying with Title IX s protections relating to abortion. For our student guide on abortion and pregnancy loss under Title IX, see here.
Is there a set period of childbirth or maternity leave?
Leave under Title IX for pregnancy and related conditions must be provided, at minimum, for as long as medically necessary (106.40(b)(3)(iv)).The length of time is determined by the student s own licensed healthcare provider based on their circumstances. While there is no pre-established timeframe for leave, the common presumption in the employment context is 6 weeks of recovery for an uncomplicated vaginal birth and 8 weeks for an uncomplicated cesarean birth. Recall that any leave must be entirely voluntary.
Can a disability office be responsible for handling accommodation requests, or must Title IX manage all aspects of the request?
Title IX Coordinators are responsible for ensuring that individualized reasonable modifications for pregnancy-related conditions are provided to students who need them. Coordinators may delegate some duties as needed but must oversee the efforts and are ultimately responsible for ensuring the obligations under the law are met. (See ED s discussion here.) Recall that while disability accommodation standards are similar, they are not identical; specialized training and materials are needed to ensure compliance with the law.
What information are faculty entitled to? Can they request specific medical documentation?
Faculty members should not request medical documentation from students regarding their pregnancy-related conditions. Rather, faculty (and other employees) are required to inform students that the Title IX Coordinator can facilitate modifications and leave and provide the Coordinator s contact information. The Title IX Coordinator or their designee may request documentation under certain circumstances. Once a modification or leave plan has been established, the Title IX Coordinator should only share with faculty information necessary for the faculty member to enact the modification or leave plan. Recall that the institution must also protect personally identifiable information under 106.44(j).
What is your recommendation for the number of lactation spaces per population?
Educational institutions are required to ensure that students and employees have access to clean, private, non-bathroom lactation spaces that may be used as needed. These spaces must be available and accessible so that students inability to access a lactation space does not negatively impact their ability to participate in the educational program. To ensure access, lactation spaces have to match the size of the population, and be situated in locations convenient to users. Educational institutions should enact measures to ensure that their lactation spaces are accessible when and where needed; many institutions regularly survey lactation room users, have sign in sheets that ask whether the space was sufficient, and/or monitor data from door access logs. At bare minimum, lactation space users should be informed of a point of contact to address any concerns about space access.
The National Institutes of Health estimates that for every 1,000 females, six lactation spaces will be needed. Of course, this is a national estimate based on employees, and the needs of students will likely vary. The Pregnant Scholar is working to provide a lactation space calculator tool in the near future. For more information about student lactation space considerations, see here.
Note that employees also have a right to as-needed lactation breaks and private space under other laws, such as the PUMP Act.
How do Title IX modifications interact with licensing requirements?
Preparing students to secure licensing is a key aspect of many educational programs and activities. As such, modifications are likely not reasonable if they would require an educational institution to waive or violate a licensing standard. However, even if a student s original request for a modification is not reasonable, institutions nevertheless have an obligation to carry out an interactive process to determine other obligations that would ensure equal educational access and mitigate harm to a student s degree progress. Finally, where licensing bodies make available waivers of typical policy for students with disabilities, educational institutions should seek to apply those special waivers to students who request modifications due to pregnancy-related conditions. Licensing and professional organizations may also be required to comply with Title IX, if they receive any deferral funding.
How do these regulations apply to non-birthing parents; are they entitled to the same academic modifications/excused absences as pregnant or postpartum students?
No. Title IX only mandates educational institutions provide modifications and leave to students who have pregnancy-related conditions, not all parents. The standalone requirement to provide accommodations or leave only applies to the student s own pregnancy-related health condition(s). That said, Title IX does not prohibit educational institutions from providing changes or leave for parenting students for caregiving purposes and doing so is certainly a best practice. Recall that any parental leave or accommodation policies for the purposes of caregiving (rather than the student s own health condition) must be administered without distinction on the basis of sex or gender; for example, time off to care for sick children cannot be given to moms but not dads.
Complaint and Grievance Procedures
Appeals, complaints, or grievances involving the Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) should be communicated to the Office of Accessibility Services within ten working days of the event or action giving rise to the issue by following the steps below. Once received the information will be reviewed by the Acting Director.
1. A student wishing to appeal an accommodation denial, file a complaint or grievance must prepare a written and dated summary of the issue in electronic format and upload it to the Accommodate Student Portal using the instructions found here.
2. Once the summary of issues has been uploaded to the Accommodate Student Portal, the student must send an email to accessibilityservices@kean.edu notifying the office that they have uploaded their written and dated summary of the issues. The student will receive a response within ten business days.
If the concerns are not resolved with the Acting Director of OAS, the student may initiate the final formal grievance by taking the following steps:
1. Prepare a written and dated summary of why the student believes Section 504 and/or the ADA were violated and sign/date a written copy.
2. The student may forward the original grievance and original supporting documentation within ten business days to the Office of the Executive Director of the Kean Wellness Center at accessibilityservices@kean.edu. The Executive Director or designee will conduct an investigation, and render a final decision within ten business days.
Documentation Requirements and Forms
Basis for Accessibility Services
The Kean University Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) provides services and accommodations for students with diagnosed disabilities. Documentation is required to demonstrate a disability diagnosis covered under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and/or the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, as amended in 2008. The ADA defines disability as a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
Disabilities Covered by the Above Laws
* Learning disabilities (such as dyslexia, dysgraphia and dyscalculia)
* Medical health (such as cardiac disease, diabetes, arthritis, cancer, seizure disorder, etc.)
* ADD/ADHD
* Physical/mobility impairments (ambulatory, wheelchair)
* Hearing impairments
* Visual impairments
* Emotional/psychological impairments (such as bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety, etc.)
* Autism Spectrum Disorder
* Traumatic brain injury
* Temporary disabilities disabilities existing only for a short period of time (6-months or less) as a result of injuries, surgery or short-term medical conditions
Documentation Content and Currency
Documentation of your disability should include:
* Statement of specific diagnosis
* Explanation of the substantial impact of the disability or multiple disabilities on academic performance
* Specific recommendations for accommodations and/or academic adjustments to ensure equal access to college programs and services. Note: Final determination of accommodations is based on what is appropriate and reasonable and is at the discretion of the OAS at Kean University.
Disability Verification Forms
The Disability Verification Forms below are provided to assist in providing the required information. These forms are to be completed and signed by a licensed healthcare professional:
* Disability Verification Form for Medical Providers - Use for chronic medical conditions impacting: ambulation; motor function; hearing; vision; cognitive processes including concentration, information processing speed, fatigability, etc.
* Disability Verification Form for Mental Health Providers - Use for conditions having a DSM 5 Diagnosis
* Disability Verification Form for Traumatic Brain Injury - Use for concussion, brain trauma of any etiology
Individuals qualified to complete the above forms are those who have been trained in the assessment and treatment of the relevant condition. Recommended practitioners include: physicians; physicians assistants or other medical personnel qualified to diagnose and treat these medical conditions. The Disability Verification Form must be issued by a medical or other qualified, licensed professional, unrelated by birth or marriage to the student, dated, signed, and include the professional s licensing information. No information may be redacted. The University reserves the right to require that a certified copy of the report be transmitted directly from the evaluator to the University.
Please submit only one of the above forms for each condition for which the student is requesting accommodations. If the student has multiple conditions, the OAS will require a separate form for each condition.
Other Forms of Supporting Documentation
Medical Evaluations and diagnostic reports may serve as other forms of acceptable supporting documentation to demonstrate the presence of a disability. No information may be redacted.
The generally acceptable documentation content and currency guidelines are shown below. If requesting accommodations due to a chronic medical condition, submitted documentation must be dated within 6 months
For a physical or sensory disability
* Physician s diagnosis and report
For a learning disability (within 3 years)
* Comprehensive psychoeducational evaluation completed by a licensed psychologist or a psychological evaluation and educational evaluation completed by a certified school psychologist and a certified learning disabilities specialist (Note: An IEP alone is not sufficient) plus Current IEP and/or Exit IEP with Summary of Performance statement
For a psychological disability (within 1 year)
* Diagnosis and report from a licensed psychiatrist, or psychologist including current medications and history of harm to self or others, if applicable.
For ADD/ADHD (within 3 years)
* Specific diagnosis from a physician based on DSM-V diagnostic criteria
For Multiple Disabilities
* Please include all of the above and explanation of the impact of each condition and specific service recommendations.
For Housing Accommodations
* Please include the relevant items above and/or the relevant Disability Verification Form(s) and have your physician/psychologist etc. include a rationale AND explanation of the impact of each condition and how the specific intervention recommendations will assist the student..
For Emotional Support Animal (ESA) Accommodations
* Please review the On Campus Animal Information pages to understand the documentation required to apply to keep and care for an Emotional Support Animal on a Kean University Campus.
Documentation Retention
 All submitted materials will be held in the Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) office as educational records under the Family Educational Rights Privacy Act (FERPA). Students have a right to review their educational record. However, students are encouraged to retain their own copies of disability documentation for future use, as the university is not obligated to produce copies for students. Under current New Jersey record retention requirements, disability documentation is mandated to be held for only two years after a student has stopped attending the college. Please contact the OAS if you are interested in removing your file or if you require copies of your documentation.
Please contact the Office of Accessibility Services via email at accessibilityservices@kean.edu or at (908) 737-4910 if you have questions or concerns.


