Kean University Shuttle Service
Our shuttle service ensures that all students, faculty, and staff with a valid Kean ID or the GET app, can navigate campus safely, efficiently, and comfortably. With ADA-accessible shuttles, we’re committed to getting you where you need to go. 

Kean trolley at Union Station 30 minutes to NYC
Hours of Operation
Monday – Friday 

7:30 AM - 10:50 PM 

The shuttle runs on weekdays during the fall and spring semesters, traveling around the Union campus. After 5 pm, the route is switched to an on-demand function, taking the last reservation at 10:50 pm. See the Track My Shuttle section for instructions. 

Hours of Operation
Shuttle Stop Locations
Kean Hall Parking Lot 
Hennings Hall 
Wilkins Theatre 
NAAB 
STEM/LHAC 
East Campus Parking Lot 
East Campus Building 
Faculty Housing 
Hynes Hall 

Resident Student Shuttle

Res life also offers a shuttle on Friday and Sunday, visiting off campus resources. See the Resident Student Shuttle page for more information: https://www.kean.edu/reslife/amenities/resident-student-shuttle 

Track my shuttle app
Track My Shuttle
We have a new shuttle tracking website. No app needed!  

How to Use

Step 1: Use this link to the TrackMyShuttle home page: https://www.trackmyshuttle.com  

Step 2: Use code KEAN as the tracking code.  

This will bring you to a page where you can navigate the different routes and options. 

 

 

Kean shuttle service
On Demand 

To use the new on-demand feature, use the same link but use code KEANOD as the tracking code. From there, you will be able to request your ride from point A to point B by filling out the required fields. Once your ride is requested, wait for it to be received by the closest driver and await your ride.

After 5 p.m., the route is switched to an on-demand function, taking the last reservation at 10:50 p.m. 

Special Requests and Services
For any Kean organizational requests for on or off-campus trips, please complete the following steps to fill out a transportation request form. Ideally, requests should be made three (3) weeks before the trip. No requests are guaranteed without confirmation from the transportation manager. 

Step 1: Use this link to create your account - 

https://www.fieldtriprequest.com/CreateUser/Index?org=NJ_Kean_University 

Step 2: After creating your account, it will bring you to the home page, or use this link if not https://www.fieldtriprequest.com, and you will then want to click on the "New Request" tab and begin to fill out your request information. 

Anytime that you need to check on your current, past, or future requests you would return to this website https://www.fieldtriprequest.com 

Kean Trolley
Why Choose Kean Shuttle Service?
Safety First: All vehicles are routinely inspected, and our drivers are trained professionals. 

Efficiency Guaranteed: On-time arrivals and departures ensure you stay on schedule. 

Comfort & Accessibility: Modern shuttles designed for every rider’s needs. 

Feedback and Suggestions
Help us improve! Share your experiences or suggestions here. https://forms.office.com/r/7wi39RRrd3 

Accessibility Services
We’re committed to inclusive transportation. Students registered with the Office of Accessibility Services (OAS) can coordinate specialized shuttle services by: 

Phone: (908) 737-4910 Email: accessibilityservices@kean.edu.  

The OAS team collaborates with Facilities and Campus Planning to ensure tailored solutions for every student. 