Kean Wellness Center
The Kean Wellness Center provides holistic, integrated health and wellness services for the entire campus community. The Center's interdisciplinary, student-centered and culturally-inclusive approach is designed to educate and empower students, faculty and staff to make informed lifestyle choices. For immediate crisis counseling services, call the National Mental Health Crisis Hotline at 9-8-8 or visit kean.edu/gethelp.
Uwill: Mental Health & Wellness Services
Kean University has partnered with Uwill, to provide student mental health and wellness solutions, offering students free immediate access to teletherapy and wellness programming through its easy-to-use online platform. Uwill includes the following services:
* Uwill: Individual Virtual Counseling
* Uhelp: Crisis Counseling (24/7)
* Umatch: Match with a therapist within 24 hours
* Urise: Nutrition, Yoga, Mindfulness & Meditation Programs
Learn more about Uwill services
Uwill: Mental Health & Wellness Services
Video file

Kean University has partnered with Uwill, to provide student mental health and wellness solutions, offering students free immediate access to teletherapy and wellness programming through its easy-to-use online platform.

Uwill provides the following services:
* Telehealth counseling at no cost for students
* Direct connection to counselors 24/7/365
* Alternative methods to address stress through yoga, meditation, mindfulness, and nutrition
* A secure and convenient path to clinical services beyond the Counseling Center office hours, including evenings and weekends
To schedule teletherapy:
Students can book their first teletherapy session in just minutes using your Kean University email when you register for an account.

Choose a therapist based on your preferences including availability, concern, gender, language, and ethnicity. You can also choose a time that fits your schedule with day, night, and weekend availability. Access is quick and easy.

If you re experiencing a mental health crisis:
Call (833) 646-1526 for help anytime, 24/7/365
Uwill is Private. Secure. Confidential.
Questions
* FAQs: Review the PDF document in FAQs English or FAQs Spanish
* Contact Uwill: Email support@uwill.com or call (833) 998-9455
* Register for Uwill: Go to the Uwill website
Frequently Asked Questions What is Uwill? Uwill is the leading mental health and wellness solution for colleges and students. Uwill provides free immediate access to teletherapy and mental health crisis support for students. How does it work? With Uwill, you have the ability to choose a therapist based on your unique needs and preferences (focus area, gender, language, ethnicity), at a time that fits your schedule (day, night, weekend availability), and by the appointment type preferred (video, phone, chat, message). For students facing a mental health emergency, Uwill offers a crisis connection phone number 833.646.1526. Who is eligible? All students have access to Uwill. Is it free? Yes, Uwill is available free of charge. How do I get started? You can access the Uwill platform by clicking here and completing your profile using your school email address and current location. After completing your profile, you can immediately schedule an appointment with a therapist of your choosing. Many students have their first session within hours of profile completion. If you are facing a mental health emergency, call 833.646.1526 to reach one of Uwill s licensed therapists trained in crisis response. For medical emergencies, please call 911. What can a Uwill therapist help me with? Uwill therapists have a range of specialties and have extensive experience working with students. Many students utilize Uwill to help with mood changes, anxiety, stress, relationship difficulties, poor body image, academic challenges, and loneliness, among many other things. In addition, if you are facing a mental health emergency, you can reach one of Uwill s licensed therapists trained in crisis response by calling 833.646.1526. For medical emergencies, please call 911. Who are the counselors available on the platform? The counselors in the Uwill network are all licensed mental health professionals with extensive clinical experience. Which treatment approaches do the counselors utilize? Counselors available on the Uwill platform take a solutions-oriented, holistic approach to treatment. Our therapists aim to work collaboratively with you to help you accomplish your goals through teaching tangible skills. This means that counselors focus on providing specific tools, coping skills, and resources to address the issues you are facing. Can I choose between video, phone, chat and message-based support? Yes, you work with your counselor and select the format that best suits you. The first session must be video or phone and then you can choose the modality based on your schedule and needs. Uwill s crisis connection is available only by phone at 833.646.1526. For medical emergencies, please call 911. Is it really private and secure? Yes, Uwill is HIPAA and FERPA compliant which means we follow the strictest privacy guidelines. We never share your data even on anonymized basis to any third party without consent. What browser is best to access Uwill? For best performance, we recommend you use Chrome browser to access Uwill here. If I am having an emergency, what should I do? If you are having a mental health emergency, you can call Uwill s crisis connection at 833.646.1526. If you are having a medical emergency, you should call 911 or visit your local emergency room. Other emergency resources: National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 988 Crisis Text Line: Text "Home" TO 741-741 Can I change counselors? Yes, you can change your counselor at any time. Who do I reach out to for technical assistance? Uwill provides 24x7 technical support by email support@uwill.com or phone 833.99.Uwill (833.998.9455).

Kean Counseling Center
Kean Counseling Center (KCC) views students and other members of the Kean community as whole and dynamic individuals. We encourage personal responsibility for achieving and maintaining wellness. The KCC approach not only assists in the process of healing but also provides information and care to maintain and enhance well-being according to individual needs and desires. Our goal is to optimize wellness, now and for the future.
Counseling Center Services
Kean Counseling Center
Welcome to Kean Counseling Center! Our goal is to provide all registered Kean students with a range of counseling, consultation, and referral services to address your mental health and wellness needs. If you are experiencing any mental health concerns, don t hesitate to reach out to us.
Kean Counseling Center
Services
The Kean Counseling Center offers short-term mental health services to enrolled students of Kean University at no additional cost.

Kean Counseling Center provides a range of evidence-based mental health and wellness interventions to help students address their concerns, improve their functioning, and achieve their goals.
All services provided by Kean Counseling Center can now be accessed virtually or in-person. To get started, reach out to us at (908)737-4850 to schedule an initial appointment.
* Initial Appointment: At this appointment, we will perform an assessment to determine your areas of concern and what kinds of services would be helpful for you. After the assessment, the student may be recommended for individual counseling, group counseling or a referral.
* Individual Counseling: The student meets with a trained clinician at a pre-scheduled time to address their goals by gaining insight, learning coping strategies and social skills, and finding other psychological or practical solutions. Students receive 8 sessions per academic year and up to 16 sessions while they are registered at Kean University.
* Group Counseling: Group counseling is also led by a trained clinician, and has the added benefit of having other group members who share some of your concerns and can offer support and feedback from a peer perspective. The number of group sessions is determined by the group counselor.
* Referral: Sometimes students needs are better met by connecting them with another kind of service. We have a network of providers in Kean Wellness Center, on campus, and in the community to help students address clinical and non-clinical problems such as health concerns, substance treatment, psychiatric or specialized counseling services, accessibility support, or basic needs.
* Same-day Services: If a student is in crisis and needs urgent support, one of our counselors is available during work hours to provide same-day support. There is no limit on same-day appointments, however the goal of each meeting is to connect the student with the appropriate ongoing service.
In Case of Emergency
 Call 911 or University Police at (908)737-4800.
Contact Us
Counseling Center Hours of Operation
Mon, Thurs, Fri (9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.)
Tues and Wed (9:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.)
Telephone: All appointments can be scheduled by calling the Kean Wellness Center reception desk for Counseling and Alcohol and Other Drug Services, (908) 737-4850.
Location: Kean Wellness Center, Suite 127, Downs Hall - Union Campus

Uwill: Mental Health & Wellness Services

Kean University has partnered with Uwill, to provide student mental health and wellness solutions, offering students free immediate access to teletherapy and wellness programming through its easy-to-use online platform. Uwill includes the following services:
* Uwill: Individual Virtual Counseling
* Uhelp: Crisis Counseling (24/7)
* Umatch: Match with a therapist within 24 hours
* Urise: Nutrition, Yoga, Mindfulness & Meditation Programs
Learn more about Uwill services
How does KCC help?
College can be an exciting and rewarding time in your life. However, it can also be challenging and stressful. These stressors, both large and small, can include:
* Social, romantic, or family conflicts
* Traumatic incidents
* College adjustment struggles
* Academic difficulties
* Sexual or physical assault
* Gender identity/sexuality concerns
* Drug/alcohol concerns or addiction
In fact, many students may face more than one of these issues over the course of their time at Kean and may struggle to find solutions. These issues can often lead to or exacerbate mental health concerns such as anxiety and depression. Our job at KCC is to assist you to address these obstacles.
Our goal is to also help you identify your goals. What do you want for yourself? How do you want your life to be? How do you want to relate to others? Our counselors can help you learn more about yourself and others and help you to develop skills and strategies to form stronger and healthier relationships and set and achieve your desired goals.
Our counselors are experienced licensed professionals who will listen to you without judgment or criticism. Information that you share with us is confidential, meaning no one, including professors, administrators, friends, or family, will be given information about your meetings at the counseling center.
Contact Us
Telephone: All appointments can be scheduled by calling the Kean Wellness Center reception desk for Counseling and Alcohol and Other Drug Services, (908) 737-4850.
Location: Kean Wellness Center, Suite 127, Downs Hall - Union Campus
Confidential Messaging: kean.studenthealthportal.com


Hours of Operation
Fall and Spring Semesters
Monday, Thursday and Friday: 9 a.m. 5 p.m.
Tuesday and Wednesday: 9 a.m. 7 p.m.
Open from 12:00 p.m. 1:00 p.m.
Summer Sessions (May August)
Monday Thursday: 8:15 a.m. 5:30 p.m.
Friday Sunday: Closed

Mental Health Resources

Student Health Services
In addition to caring for acute illness and injury, Student Health Services offers preventative services such as Vaccine Days, Get Yourself Tested Events, nutrition counseling, health updates and special programing for student groups. Visit the office to find out more information about the services provided.
Student Health Services
Schedule an appointment at Student Health Services
Kean University Health Services Ask a Health Care Provider
 Kean Counseling Center

Mental Health Resources
Emergency Resources:
Please find below a variety of different resources that students can access to maintain and improve their mental health and wellness.
* Emergency
* Trinitas Hospital 24-hour hotline: (908) 351-6684
* Kean University Police: (908) 737-4800 or 911
* Suicide/Crisis Lines
* Suicide and Crisis Lifeline: Call or Text 988
* Crisis Text Line: Text HOME to 741741 to reach a crisis counselor
* National Suicide Prevention: 1-800-273-TALK (8255)
* Para Espa ol: 1-888-628-9454
* Deaf and Hard of Hearing (TTY): 1-800-799-4889
* NJ HopeLine: 1-855-654-6735
* LGBTQ Individuals: (866) 488-7386 (Trevor Project)
* Mental Health Resources
* PSYCH HUB: Free digital mental health resource library
* Find a Therapist
* SAMHSA Online Treatment Locator:To find services near you, text your zip code to 435748 (HELP4U)
* PsychologyToday: Online resource to find therapists
* Hamilton Behavioral Services: Mental health resource in NJ
* Open Path Collective: Affordable counseling options
Mental Health Screening Tools:







Brief screenings are the quickest way to determine if you or someone you care about should connect with a behavioral health professional. for you or For a free mental health screening, click here!
Helpful COVID-19 Resources:
Free Guide To Living With Worry and Anxiety Amidst Global Uncertainty (available in 20+ languages. Includes a selection of practical Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT) exercises for managing well-being including activity scheduling, worry postponement, and compassionate cognitive restructuring: click here
Financial Concerns Due To COVID? Check out the NJ Family Fact Sheet with a variety of assistance for basic needs including food pantries, rental assistance and employment resourced: click here
Mental Health and Coping | CDC presents a comprehensive guide to resources and information available to assist you: click here


Alcohol and Other Drug Services
Kean s Alcohol and Other Drug Services reflect a range of prevention and intervention programs tailored to the University community. Visit the office for more information, resources, appointments and/or links to online self assessments.
Alcohol and Other Drug Services
Breadcrumb
* Home

* Offices A-Z
Welcome to Alcohol and Other Drug Services information and resource page. Alcohol and Other Drug Services is part of the Kean Wellness Center and is available to help students with substance use concerns for themselves and that of family or friends. Below is information to help navigate on campus and off campus resources.
Alcohol and Other Drug Screening
Individual Counseling
Educational Programs
Self Assessments
Recovery Support Services
Self-Help Resources
Resources for Families and Friends
Health & Wellness
Off-campus Resources
Informational Resources
Alcohol and Other Drug Screening
An individual screening provides personalized recommendations to the student on the impact substance use may have on their life.
Individual Counseling
Students who are interested in individual counseling around alcohol and other drug concerns for themselves or family/friends are offered sessions through Alcohol and Other Drug Services. Counseling includes once-a-week session and can be supplemented by outside support groups.
Educational Programs
Students make choices around alcohol and other drugs that may require early intervention/psychoeducational programs. The programs are designed to meet the individual needs of students.
* Choices I & II: are brief alcohol prevention and harm-reduction programs. The programs provide educational information around alcohol so students can make more informed decisions.
* Alternatives I & II: are brief cannabis prevention and harm-reduction programs. The programs provide educational information around cannabis so students can make more informed decisions.
Self-Assessments
Alcohol eCHECKUP TO GO at Kean University
Cannabis eCHECKUP TO GO at Kean University
Recovery Support Services
Provides students in recovery with support to help attain educational goals and sustain ongoing recovery at the University. Individual support meetings are offered in addition to helping recovery students navigate other on-campus resources.
Self-Help Resources
Alcoholics Anonymous
Gamblers Anonymous in New Jersey
Marijuana Anonymous
Narcotics Anonymous
Smart Recovery
Refuge Recovery
Resources for Families and Friends
Al-Anon: Support for families/friends coping with a loved one s problem alcohol use
Nar-Anon: Support for families/friends coping with a loved one s problem substance use
Health & Wellness
Improving Sleep
National Sleep Foundation
Mindfulness
Meditation: National Center for Complimentary and Integrative Health-Mediation in Depth
Mindfulness and Meditation Apps
Calm
Simply Being
Headspace
Healthy Eating
Food and Nutrition: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Off-Campus Resources
NJ Department of Human Services
NJ Addiction Helpline 24/7: 1-844-732-2465
Informational Resources
Higher Education Center for Alcohol and Drug Prevention
National Institute on Drug Abuse
National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism

