Kean Stage - Kean Theaters
Our mission
The mission of Kean Stage, known as TMPO (Theatre Management and Programming Office) as well, is to present a diverse array of professional cultural programs to supplement the intellectual life of the classroom, increase opportunities for community and university interaction, and provide affordable access to the arts for central and northern New Jersey students and residents.

=============
Main Campus
Wilkins Theatre
1000 Morris Avenue, Union, NJ 07083
Our main theatre, Wilkins Theatre, is located on the Main Campus of Kean University, by entering through the North Avenue entrance. This proscenium performance theatre features:

free parking adjacent to the building
ticketing services
front-of-house and technical staff
assigned seating (902 seats)
Directions
----------------
Enlow Recital Hall
215 North Avenue, Hillside, NJ 07205
This venue is a newly designed concert hall with precision acoustics unmatched by any other venue in the region and located in what used to be Pearsby in the East Campus of Kean University. This proscenium performance theatre features:

ticketing service
front-of-house and technical staff
assigned seating (312 seats)
free parking adjacent to the building
Directions
--------------------
Main Campus
Bauer Boucher Theatre Center
1000 Morris Avenue, Union, NJ 07083
Perfect for a small conference, the Bauer Boucher Theatre Center is located in the Main Campus of Kean University. This small theatre features:

accessible entrance
ticketing service
front-of-house and technical staff
general seating (99 seats)
free parking adjacent to the building

-------------
The Lawn at Enlow Hall, 
located on the East Campus of Kean University in Union, NJ, is a premier outdoor venue used for university and community events, including the annual Jazz & Roots Music Festival. It serves as a central outdoor gathering spot behind the Nathan Weiss Graduate College building and is accessible via Morris Avenue. 
Key Details About The Lawn at Kean University:
Location: East Campus of Kean University, behind the Nathan Weiss Graduate College building, 215 Morris Avenue, Union, NJ.
Event Venue: The Lawn is a popular, open-air spot for concerts, including the 2024 Jazz & Roots Music Festival.
Accessibility: Easily reached via Route 22 West or from the main campus via directions to Enlow Hall.
Surroundings: The East Campus features green spaces, including the nearby Liberty Hall Academic Center & Exhibition Hall grounds. 
------------
Little Theater
The Miron Student Center Little Theatre at Kean University in Union, NJ, is an intimate venue hosting professional performances by Kean Stage, student productions, and community events. It provides close-to-the-stage seating for plays, music, and comedy, serving as a hub for campus creativity and professional touring artists. 

Key Details about the Little Theatre & Kean Stage:
Location: Situated within the Miron Student Center on the Kean University campus.
Events: Hosts a variety of performances including concerts, plays, comedy, and more.
Kean Stage: This is the professional presenting series at the university that operates the Little Theatre, along with Wilkins Theatre and Enlow Recital Hall.
Accessibility: Accessible seating is available for guests.
 
============================

(908) 737-7469
ticket@kean.edu
icon ONE
Hours & Locations
Box Office
Main Location
To purchase Kean tickets, visit our main Box Office, located in the Wilkins Theatre lobby at 1000 Morris Ave, Union, NJ

Holiday Hours
We are closed for the holidays from Wednesday, December 24 through Sunday, January 4. We’ll reopen on Monday, January 5, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Hours of operation
Regular hours of operation are:

Mondays – Fridays
10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
We are closed on all national holidays or when Kean University is closed.

Ticketing System
Our ticketing system is VBO (Virtual Box Office), which offers services to multiple departments on campus. To find out about all ticketed events at Kean University, visit: kean.vbotickets.com

Other locations
Enlow Recital Hall, Bauer Boucher Theatre Center, Little Theatre.

Box offices at these venues will open one hour prior to each event taking place there. For regular Box Office tickets and questions, please visit our main location at Wilkins Theatre. 

-----------------
Payment Methods & Fees
There’s a processing fee of $3 per ticket on all orders.
We accept Cash, Credit Cards and Checks.
All checks must be made to: Kean Stage Box Office.
Credit card charges will appear as Kean University Performances on your credit card statement.
We accept Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express.
-----------------
Refunds & Exchanges
All sales are final. There are no refunds.
Program and casting is subject to change. You’ll be notified if that’s the case.
Exchanges to a lower-priced event or seating area will not entail a refund on the difference.
Tickets may only be exchanged for another event of the same production, upon availability.
Exchanged tickets will be held at the Box Office.
------------------
Things to Know
No food or drinks allowed inside any venue, except for water.
Free parking available at every venue.
For indoor summer events, bring a light jacket (air-conditioning).
Everyone needs a ticket.
Free lap seats are available for children 2-years-old or younger.
----------
Offers & Coupons
Discount policy
All offers and coupons pertaining to our events are not combinable.
More than one offer and/or coupon cannot be used for the same event and time, nor exceed the specified amount of the discount.
All offers and coupons are subject to availability.
----------
Health & Safety
Masks are now optional, but strongly encouraged during flu season for members of the campus community and visitors attending most campus events. Kean University reserves the right to amend this policy at any time.
Email us at ticket@kean.edu with any questions or concerns.