Office of the Registrar
The Office of the Registrar provides many services including registration and course scheduling, academic record maintenance, degree conferrals and much more.
Enrollment Verification
How to Obtain a Verification of Enrollment
Step 1
Log into your MyCougar account by clicking here.
Step 2
Navigate to the Enrollment Verification card on the top row.

Step 3
Click on "Get Enrollment Verification" button.

Step 4
Select "Obtain an Enrollment Certificate," by choosing one of the following options:
* Current Enrollment - for the semester you are taking classes in now
* All Enrollment - every semester that you attended Kean University
* Print out the official Enrollment Verification


Loan Providers, Medical Insurers and other Parties
PLEASE REFER LOAN PROVIDERS, MEDICAL INSURERS OR OTHER PARTIES NEEDING TO VERIFY ENROLLMENT OR GRADUATION TO THE NATIONAL STUDENT CLEARINGHOUSE AT:
National Student Clearinghouse
2300 Dulles Station Boulevard, Suite 300
Herndon, VA 20171
T: (703) 742- 4200, F: (703) 318- 4058
degreeverify@studentclearinghouse.org (degree verification)
enrollmentverify@studentclearinghouse.org (enrollment verification)
Website: www.studentclearinghouse.org
Online Course Registration and Getting Started
Breadcrumb
* Home

* Kean Online
Frequently Asked Questions
Introduction

This FAQ is intended to help you register for an online course, get started with studying online, and have a successful Kean Online experience. For additional admissions information and assistance, contact: keanonline@kean.edu or (908) 737-3239.

When/how can I register for an online course?
Kean Online students can register for online courses when registration opens through KeanWise.
All Kean University students may register through KeanWise for online courses, as follows:
* When registration opens for any course not designated as: Kean Online Students Only."
* Five business days before the start of the semester for any course is designated as Kean Online Students Only" and does not require any special petitions/permissions.
We recommend that you meet with your academic advisor before registration.

How do I register for the second session after add/drop?
Students can register independently through KeanWise until the first day of the second session. For any registration issues, please email regme@kean.edu. All emails must come from your Kean email address.

How do I get to my online courses?
Online courses at Kean University are completely online through Canvas and don't meet in person. Your username and password are the same as your Kean email login. Students who cannot access Canvas or have other technical difficulties should contact Information Technology (IT) at (908) 737-6000.

Are there any live teaching sessions via Zoom or video?
Online courses are asynchronous, which means there are no set log-in times. However, there could be some synchronous, live components depending on the class and professor. It is not mandatory to attend the live sessions as they are recorded and can be viewed at later times.

When will I have access to my online course(s)?
Online courses become available to you on the official course start date.

How will I know what books I need for my online course(s)?
Books for all online courses are listed in KeanWise where you search for course sections and at the Kean Bookstore. It is advised that you obtain the required books before the class begins.

Are there any computer requirements for taking an online course?
While it is not required to own a computer, it is highly recommended. Consistent and reliable access to your online courses is necessary for your academic success. Most online courses require you to utilize MS Office. Any computer being used to take an online course should have this software. Some courses may also require you to have a camera and a microphone. Most computers nowadays will have these built in.

Does an online course cost more money than a traditional in-person course?
Online courses are priced at the same rates as in-state tuition for traditional in-person courses.

Will Kean send me information about my online course?
Any notifications about your online course(s) will be sent to your Kean email. Check your email daily so that you do not miss any important updates -- especially before the start of a session or semester.

Can I take online courses if I'm an in-person student?
Yes, any in-person Kean student can take Kean Online classes. However, in many cases, you can only register for online classes 5 days before classes start. Please speak with your advisor for assistance.

Can I take in-person classes if I'm an online student?
Yes, however, the majority of your classes must be taken online. Please speak with your advisor for assistance.

How do I become a Kean Online Student?
Once you have confirmed that your program is offered online, complete the Change of Location Form

Can online students get an ID card?
Yes, Kean Online students can obtain a virtual ID card. Download the GET Mobile App (Visit the App Store or Google Play to download the GET App onto your smartphone) and log in with your Kean credentials.
Click on the Settings Icon
Click on Update Photo
Click on Upload
Choose an Existing Photo from your Gallery or Take a Photo
Submit Photo for Review

Can online students live on campus, join clubs and attend campus events?
Yes. Kean Online students can attend events, live on campus and join clubs. Some clubs even hold virtual meetings. As an online student, you are fully a Kean student and welcome to be as connected to the University as you want. However, online students who plan to visit or stay on campus must submit immunization forms to student health services.
Transcript Request
Unofficial Transcript Requests
To request your unofficial transcript please click here.
o Unofficial Transcript Request
Transcript Processing Delays
Please be advised that transcript processing is currently delayed as a result of the submission of Fall 2025 grades. We appreciate your patience and will process all requests as quickly as possible.
Students may access both official and unofficial transcripts.
To request your official transcript, please review the information below.
To request your unofficial transcript please click here.
Unofficial Transcript Request
Official Transcript Request: Students Enrolled 1980 to Present
Official Kean University electronic transcripts may be requested online through the National Student Clearinghouse.*
Electronic transcripts allow for 24/7 ordering through a fast and secure process, with text alert ability and a status dashboard, providing students with convenience and peace of mind. After the electronic transcript request is processed, your transcript will be sent electronically within 1-2 business days to the recipient you have provided.
For all mailed paper transcripts, please refer to the information and instructions provided on the National Student Clearinghouse website.
*Students who attended 1980 or prior must complete the form below.
Official Transcript Request: Students Enrolled 1980 to Present
Official Transcript Request: Students Enrolled Prior to 1980
Transcripts (attendance at Kean prior to Fall 1980) will be mailed within seven working days.
During peak periods especially at the end or beginning of a term, mailing may be delayed beyond the above working days.
Notes about processing times and fee:
* Transcripts for students enrolled prior to 1980 will be mailed within 7 business days (from the date received - excluding Saturdays).
* During peak periods mailing may be delayed beyond above noted business days.
* Two day express mail transcripts are available at an extra cost of $35.
Official Transcript Request: Students Enrolled Prior to 1980
Payment Information
Kean University has partnered with the National Student Clearinghouse for transcript processing. The fee for transcripts is $10.40, plus secure electronic PDF fees and/or shipping and handling fees, per official copy - the cost covers all undergraduate, graduate and doctoral coursework.
The total cost varies by transcript format:
* Secure Electronic Transcripts: $11.40 ($10.40 transcript fee + $1.00 secure electronic PDF fee)
* Paper Transcripts: Starting at $10.40 (transcript fee plus additional shipping & handling fee - actual price shown before checkout when ordering)
If you have any questions about ordering a transcript, please contact the Cougar Help Center at (908) 737-0400.
Office of the Registrar
Non-Matriculated/Visiting Students
Breadcrumb
* Home

* Offices A-Z

* Admissions and Aid
Undergraduate Students
If you are an undergraduate student, enrolled (and in good academic standing) at a regionally accredited college or university, you are eligible to enroll as a visiting non-matriculated student.
You must submit:
* A completed Non-Matriculated/Visiting Student Application.
* An enrollment certification/verification from your home institution.
Important Information:
* Visiting Undergraduate Students are limited to a maximum of 12 credits.
* Students remain eligible to register for up to 12 credits as long as they remain enrolled in consecutive semesters. (Students who miss three semesters must reapply for non-matriculated/visiting status.)
* Registration is based on seat availability.
* Non-matriculated students are not eligible to receive financial assistance.
* Restrictions may apply to courses, as well as to programs. In order to register for a course with a prerequisite or registration restriction, you may need to provide proof that you meet course requirements to the academic program offering the course.
Graduate Students
Any student who holds a bachelor's degree (or equivalent) and would like to take a graduate level course. Whether it is to fulfill a prerequisite requirement for a graduate program, a course for personal enrichment or any other reason, Kean's Graduate Non-Matriculated program is the option for you!
A non-matriculated student is considered a student within a graduate course and is required to complete all required coursework and attend all courses. Non-matriculated students will receive University credits and grades.
You must submit:
* A completed Non-Matriculated/Visiting Student Application.
* Proof of degree: diploma or an unofficial transcript. Non-US degrees must be accompanied by a NACES evaluation (www.naces.org).
 Other Important Information:
* Non-matriculated, graduate students are limited to a maximum of 6 credits.
* Registration is based on seat availability.
* Students remain eligible to register for up to 6 credits as long as they remain enrolled in consecutive semesters. (Students who miss three semesters must reapply for non-matriculated/visiting status.)
* Enrollment as a graduate non-matriculated student does not guarantee acceptance into a graduate program.
* Non-matriculated students are NOT eligible to receive financial assistance.
* Restrictions may apply to courses, as well as to programs. Please contact the Graduate Program Coordinator for the program of interest before the registration date for information regarding these restrictions. Visit the Individual Program Pages to find the contact information.
Special Populations
Students who have been admitted as a matriculated student into a Kean program and who would like to take a course prior to the start of their program should complete a Non-Matriculated/Visiting Student Application.
High School Juniors and Seniors may register for three credits for the Summer Session II semester. You must submit:
* A letter of recommendation from your counselor.
* Written approval from a Kean University Academic Department Chairperson.
* A completed Non-Matriculated/Visiting Student Application.
Senior Citizens who wish to take undergraduate courses at Kean as a non-matriculated student are not responsible for tuition or the student leadership fee. They are responsible for the remaining fees, per credit.
* Must be a NJ resident age 65 and over.
* May register for open classes on a space availability basis (Please see the registration eligibility chart for details).
* A completed Non-Matriculated/Visiting Student Application.
Readmission to Kean
Once a Cougar, always a Cougar! We invite you to finish what you started! If you were admitted and enrolled at Kean, but never completed your degree requirements, you may apply for Readmission.
Join us for a Talk it out Tuesday session | Every Tuesday at Noon Ask a question

Who is eligible for Readmission?
You must meet all of criteria listed to be eligible for readmission.
* You left the University in good standing (i.e. you were not dismissed). If you were dismissed, please contact the Office of Student Retention & Academic Innovation at retain@kean.edu for information on how to seek reinstatement.
* Returning undergraduate students, you have not been enrolled at Kean for three or more semesters. If it has been less than three semesters since your last enrollment, please visit this page Academic Advising Requirements for details.
* Returning graduate students, you have not been enrolled at Kean for at least three, but less than 6 semesters. If you have not been enrolled at Kean for 6 semesters or more, you will need to submit a new application for admission to the graduate program.
* You have a cumulative GPA (i.e. combined from all institutions attended including Kean) of 2.0 or higher.
* Readmission into the University does not guarantee readmission into the major (including the major you held prior to leaving Kean). You will be readmitted as an intended major and in order to declare, you must meet the current entrance (declaration) requirements for the major.
* You must select an intended major on your application. Credits earned will be evaluated in relation to the academic program to which you are applying. You can review our transfer credit guidelines as a reference.
* If you are changing your major from what it was when you last attended Kean, you will need to meet the current program and curricular requirements in effect at the time of your readmission.
* Upon readmission, you are held to the current curricular requirements in effect at the time of the readmission and not the curricular requirements in effect at the time of your initial admission.
* Degree requirements must be completed within 10 years from the date of matriculation. Extension of time may be considered upon written request by the student to the appropriate college dean.
Important Things to Know about Readmission
The Application Process
* The $75 application fee is waived for our student applying for Readmission.
* Applications are usually reviewed 3-5 days after they are marked as complete. Readmission decisions are sent by email and will be posted on your application portal.
Readmission Application Dates
(for Union and Ocean campuses only)



Application Opens
Application Closes
FALL
December 15
August 1
SPRING
August 15
December 7

Readmission Application Dates
(for Kean Online)



Application Opens
Application Closes
FALL
December 15
August 7
SPRING
August 15
December 14
APPLY NOW
Transferring Credit to Kean
* If you have attended other institutions after leaving Kean University, you will need to submit official transcripts for all colleges and post-secondary schools since you stopped attending Kean.

NOTE: If you were admitted prior to 2010, it is highly encouraged that all official transcripts, including institutions attended prior to Kean, are submitted.
Financial Aid
* Once you are accepted for readmission, submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) so you can be considered for financial aid support for the coming semester. The FAFSA can be found at studentaid.gov.
* If you were on academic probation during your last semester at Kean may still receive financial aid when you return. In addition to filing the FAFSA, you may need review from the SAP (Satisfactory Appeal Process) Committee. Learn more by visiting the Office of Financial Aid SAP Policy page.

Reinstatement After Being Academically Dismissed
If you had to step away from Kean due to academic dismissal, your first step will be to seek Reinstatement. Our primary concern is to support your successful return. As part of the Reinstatement review process, you will have the opportunity to share your story. Tell us about what happened in the past and what has changed or is different since you last attended Kean. This will help us work on a collaborative plan to track you towards your academic success.
Your first step is to contact the Office of Student Retention & Educational Innovation at retain@kean.edu.
Connect With Us
Email: Readmit@kean.edu
Phone: (908) 737-7130
Partnership with ReUp
We are excited to share that Kean University has teamed up with ReUp Education to help former students like you return
to your educational journey. If you've had to pause your studies, we're here to support you every step of the way.
Through our partnership, the ReUp coaching team will guide you through the re-enrollment process, helping you identify
what you need to succeed in your chosen degree path all at no cost to you.
If you are eligible for this program, a dedicated Success Coach will personally reach out to assist you in getting back on track.

