
* Student Health Services
Our Services
Services are available to all registered students for the current or upcoming semester. All services are available either in person or via telemedicine. To schedule an appointment, you must first REGISTER for an account on the Student Health Portal.
All services provided in the office by a SHS provider are free of charge. Any testing sent to an outside lab may incur a charge and will be billed directly from the outside lab. Students are financially responsible for any charges billed by an outside facility.
Primary Care
Students should make a Primary Care appointment for general medical concerns. Some of the conditions that can be treated in Student Health Services include (but are not limited to):
* Cold and flu
* COVID
* Cough
* Sore throat
* Urinary tract infection
* Pregnancy tests
* Strep tests
* Abdominal pain
* Injuries
* Rashes
* Allergies
Physicals
Students who need medical clearance for an academic program such as clinical placement, internships, or for job placement may request a physical from Student Health Services. Most programs will have a form that the provider will need to fill out and sign, please bring that with you to the appointment. Fill out any sections that pertain to you and sign if required. If immunizations are necessary for the physical, please bring a copy of your most recent immunization record.
Student Health Services is unable to offer physicals or medical clearance for physical agility testing such as law enforcement, firefighter or sports, or for any study abroad or travel programs.
Students can also request tuberculosis testing, also called a PPD or Mantoux test or QuantiFERON Gold.
Lab
Students should make a lab appointment if they require blood work for school or athletics such as MMR titers or Sickle Cell Screening. Bring your insurance card to your appointment.
Vaccines
All students are required to comply with the NJ state law (NJAC 9:2-14) Immunization Requirements. Students who are missing all or part of their series of state mandated vaccines for school attendance will be contacted by a student health service staff member and may be scheduled to receive those vaccines at student health services. They include:
MMR
Hep B
Meningitis
Blood Pressure
Students can schedule an appointment for a blood pressure screening. If you have a history of high blood pressure or your blood pressure is high during your visit, your provider will provide you with further information or referrals if necessary.
Birth Control
Students can discuss the different options for birth control with one of our providers. Students will receive a basic physical exam prior to starting any birth control and will require routine follow up for any refills. Prescriptions are sent to an outside pharmacy of your choice. Students are responsible for the cost of any prescriptions sent to an outside pharmacy.
Sexual Reproductive Health
We encourage students to contact us with questions or concerns regarding your sexual health. You can make a sexual reproductive health appointment even if you have not yet begun sexual activity. Bring your insurance card to your appointment for any lab testing that might be recommended. Appointments can be made for:
* Routine breast and pelvic exams.
* Pap tests.
* GYN complaints/problems.
STI/HIV Testing
This is for our students who request testing for sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Talk with your provider about which tests are right for you. Most testing can be done with just a urine sample, so be sure not to go to the bathroom at least two hours before your appointment time. Bring your insurance card to your appointment. Talk to your provider if you have any concerns regarding laboratory testing and privacy.
Free HIV/STI testing with Iris House
Student Health Services has partnered with Iris House of Plainfield (a non-profit organization) to provide Free and confidential HIV/STI testing. Testing is performed in Student Health Services. Testing is performed and processed by licensed Iris house Staff members. Please visit our events page for a list of dates.
You can also get tested off campus with Iris House: Visit www.irishouse.org for updated clinic hours or follow them on Instagram @irishouse_nj
Events
If you are interested in collaborating with our office, you must submit an official request to Kean Wellness Center. Please complete the Request for Collaboration Form and include as many details about the event as possible. The request will be reviewed by the Kean Wellness Center programming committee and a response with a decision should occur in no later than 5 business days.
Wellness Workshops
Bandages & Basics: First Aid Workshop
Location: MSC 228
Time: March 24, 2026 2:00pm-3:00pm
Join Student Health Services and KUPD for a workshop on first aid and basic care:
* Learn how to clean, dress and protect wounds.
* When to seek medical care.
* Over the counter and home remedies.
* Free 1st aid kits provided.

Get Yourself Tested
Iris House - Free and Confidential HIV Testing
Downs Hall 11:00am-3:00pm
No appointments Necessary. No insurance required. Just walk into Downs Hall on the following dates with your Kean ID:
* January 13, 2026
* January 21, 2026
* January 27, 2026
* February 2, 2026
* February 10, 2026
* February 18, 2026
* February 23, 2026
* March 5, 2026
* March 11, 2026
* March 16, 2026
* March 23, 2026
* April 7, 2026
* April 14, 2026
* April 21, 2026
* April 29, 2026
Immunizations
In response to updated federal and state guidelines on COVID-19, as of June 1, 2023, Kean University no longer requires the COVID-19 vaccination, however, it is strongly recommended. Please read the information below carefully to learn more about other required vaccinations for students.
The Immunization Requirements Form for new students is available via the Student Health Portal. Click on the buttons below for directions to access and submit the form.
New Students
Submit All Immunizations in 5 Steps
Kean University Mandatory Immunization Requirements
Effective June 1, 2023, Kean University will no longer require the COVID-19 vaccination, however, it is strongly recommended.

Immunization Deadline:
Fall Semester Start: August 1st
Spring Semester Start: January 6th
Submit immunization records on the PyraMED Student Health Portal
Additional details are available in the Immunizations Requirements Packet. Please read carefully for directions to complete and submit this document.
***Returning students do not need to resubmit vaccination records already on file with the University. If returning students are missing immunization requirements, they are required to submit all missing documentation or a hold/restriction will be placed on their account.***

The information below is available in the Kean University Immunization Requirements Chart.
Vaccine Type
Resident (Resides in campus housing)
Commuter Part time (taking 1-11 credits)
Commuter Full time (taking 12 or more credits)
International (Resides in the U.S. with a student visa)
MMR
?
?
?
?
Hepatitis B
?
?
?
?
Meningitis ACYW**
?
Required for all students under age 18

Required for all students under age 18

Required for all students under age 18

Tuberculosis Skin Test (PPD, Mantoux, TST)
?
?
?
?
Quantiferon Blood Testing if prior record of BCG vaccination
**Meningitis ACYW: If your last dose was given greater than 5 years after age 16 AND you are a new residential student, a booster will be required.

Nursing Program Requirements ONLY
MMR Titers
Hepatitis B Titers
2 Step Tuberculosis Test/PPD/Mantoux/TST or Quantiferon Blood Testing acceptable (within 12 months)
Varicella Titers
Tdap

New Jersey State law mandates that Kean University complies with the Department of Health and Senior Services Immunization Regulations. Failure to submit your immunizations by the required dates may result in an immunization hold restriction being placed on your account. This restriction may prevent you from registering for future semesters and receiving grades.
Location and Hours
Location
The Student Health Services is located in the Wellness Center in Downs Hall, Room 126
1. As you enter via the Morris Avenue entrance stay to your left as you enter the campus and turn into the Vaughn Eames Parking lot.
2. Park in Vaughn Eames Parking lot and walk towards the rear entrance of Downs Hall.
Fall and Spring Semesters
Monday, Thursday and Friday: 9 a.m. 5 p.m.
Tuesday and Wednesday: 9 a.m. 7 p.m.
Summer Sessions (May August)
Monday Thursday: 8:15 a.m. 5:30 p.m.
Health Absence
There are three types of absences: Bereavement Leave, Short Term Leave and Semester Withdrawal. Read the following and decide which is best for you and your circumstances.
Bereavement Leave: Students will be granted up to three (3) consecutive weekdays of bereavement leave for the death of an immediate family member. Requests for additional days will be considered to support bereavement needs. At any given point, the student may decide to take a short-term leave or withdraw from the semester. Additional information for requesting a leave of absence (including important information about potential impacts to financial aid) can be found below.
Short Term Leave: If a student will be absent from class for five consecutive days but less than two weeks, due to medical or mental health reasons, the student may request a Short Term Leave. If your diagnosis is mental health-related, a request for a Wellness short term leave should be directed to the Counseling Center.
Semester Withdrawal: If a student will be absent from class for greater than two weeks, due to medical or mental health reasons, the student may request a semester withdrawal.
Please note short term leaves are not available for half-semester courses. Students taking half-semester courses will need to apply for a semester withdrawal.
Bereavement Leave
Steps to Request Bereavement Leave
Please see the Bereavement Leave page for important information about Bereavement Leave and the steps needed to ensure communication of bereavement leave between the student and Kean University.
Short Term Leave
Steps To Request a Short Term Leave
Steps 2 through 5 take place within the Student Health Portal. Questions about the Student Health Portal can be directed to our reception team at studenthealthservices@kean.edu or (908) 737-4880.
1. Print or download the Short Term Leave Provider Form and give it to your healthcare provider to fill out. Requests will not be processed unless the Provider Form is complete.
2. Upload the completed Provider Form in the Document Upload area of the Student Health Portal.
* Select Short Term Leave Documents: Student Health Svcs.
3. Send a new message to the Certified Medical Assistant, Medical Records Coordinator or the Professional Services Specialist in the Messages area. Include the following information in the message:
* In the Subject write Short Term Leave
* Your full name and Kean University ID number.
* Clearly state you are requesting a Short Term Leave.
4. Forms will be added to your Student Health Portal; Complete the leave form in the My Forms area.
5. Confirmation that your request has been processed will be sent in the Messages area in the Student Health Portal.
All documents will be reviewed and processed after they have been uploaded and the appropriate form has been completed in the Student Health Portal. Allow three to five business days for a response regarding the determination of a request.
You may check on the status of your request by sending a new message to the Certified Medical Assistant, Medical Records Coordinator or the Professional Services Specialist in the Messages area of the Student Health Portal.
Once a determination is made, the Kean Wellness Center will notify you via email and notify your instructors of the absence. This process should not be a substitute for student communication with his or her instructors.
Semester Withdrawal
A Semester Withdrawal is required if a student will be absent for two (2) weeks or longer. In this case, the student will be withdrawn from all classes for the current semester. The student will receive a "W" grade on their transcript for the semester. The withdrawal or W grade is not counted in the cumulative grade point average.
Students are strongly encouraged to consult with their department chairperson or director to discuss any impact to their anticipated timeline toward degree completion prior to submitting this request.
Requests for a semester withdrawal should be made no later than 4 months after the end of the impacted semester.
Steps To Request a Semester Withdrawal
1. Download the Semester Withdrawal Request Form and the Semester Withdrawal Provider Form.
* The student is required to fill out the request form.
* Your healthcare provider must fill out the provider form completely.
2. Once both forms are completed, upload both forms to your Student Health Portal.
* Upload the completed forms in the Document Upload area of the Student Health Portal under Semester Withdrawal Documents.
3. Once both documents have been uploaded you will receive a message in your health portal within 3-5 business days stating the documents have been received.
4. The Withdrawal Committee will review your request and contact you via email to schedule a meeting prior to a final decision if necessary.
Financial Impact of Semester Withdrawal
A semester withdrawal does not automatically guarantee a refund or a deletion of a balance due. Refunds are processed according to the deadline dates on the Academic Calendar provided by the Office of the Registrar. Kean Wellness Center does not process refunds, please reach out to the Office of Student Accounting for any financial questions or concerns. Students who experience a health or wellness issue during the last few weeks of a semester should review the Incomplete Grade policy in the current Undergraduate or Graduate Catalog.


